---
draft: true
---

# Internationalization (i18n)

## General guidelines

**Consider** translating in the template rather than in the component class.

**Do** use `LOCALE_ID` injection token to get the app current locale.
- ✅ `locale = inject(LOCALE_ID);`

:::note
Note that `LOCALE_ID` is the application language, not the user's preferred language. They can be the same, which is the optimal case, but they can also differ. If a french user visit an english website, the application language will be `en-US` while the user's preferred language will be `fr-FR`.

Angular will use `LOCALE_ID` by default for everything related to internationalization, such as [date](#date-and-time-formatting) and [number](#number-formatting) formatting.
:::

## Detect user preferred language

**Do** use [`navigator.language`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Navigator/language) on client side to get the user prefered language.

**Do** use [`Accept-Language` HTTP header](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Reference/Headers/Accept-Language) on server side to get the user preferred language.

:::tip
`Accept-Language` header can be used to automatically redirect users to their preferred language, unless a specific language is requested.
:::

## Date and time formatting

**Consider** storing date in UTC timezone and converting it to local timezone when displaying it.

**Do** use [DatePipe](https://angular.io/api/common/DatePipe) to format dates and times.
- ✅ `{{ date | date }}`
- ✅ `{{ date | date:'short' }}` (with specific format)

## Number formatting

**Do** use [DecimalPipe](https://angular.io/api/common/DecimalPipe) to format numbers.
- ✅ `{{ date | number }}`
- ✅ `{{ date | number:'1.0-2' }}` (with specific format)

## Libraries

See [internationalization libraries](./external-libraries.md#internationalization-i18n) for a list of recommended solutions.
